add TiDB Dashboard Log Search Page doc (#2689)
pingcap/docs: dashboard/dashboard-log-search.md

---
title: TiDB Dashboard Log Search Page

> summary: Learn how to search logs on all nodes using the log search page of TiDB Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to search logs of all nodes using the log search page of TiDB Dashboard.
```

category: how-to
---

# TiDB Dashboard Log Search Page

> On the log search page of TiDB Dashboard, you can search logs on all nodes, preview the search result and download logs.

Author: ```suggestion
On the log search page of TiDB Dashboard, you can search logs of all nodes, preview the search result and download logs.
```

## Access the page

After logging into TiDB Dashboard, you can click **Search Logs** to enter this log search homepage.

![Log Search Page](/media/dashboard/dashboard-log-search-home.png)

This page provides the following 4 search parameters:

- Time range: Specifies the time range of logs to search. The default value is the recent 30 minutes.
- Log level: Specifies the minimum log level. All logs above this log level are searched. The default value is the `INFO`.

> - Keywords: The value is optional and can be any legal string. Multiple keywords are separated by spaces. Regular expressions are supported (case-insensitive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keywords: The parameter is optional and its value can be any legal string. Multiple keywords are separated by a space. Regular expressions are supported (case-insensitive).
```

> - Components: Selects the cluster components to search, which are multi-select and non-empty. By defaut, all components are selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Components: Selects the cluster components to search, which are multi-select and non-empty. By default, all components are selected.
```

> After clicking the **Search** button, you will enter the detail page of the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After clicking the **Search** button, you enter the detail page of the search results.
```

## Page of search result

The following image shows the page of the search results.

![Search result](/media/dashboard/dashboard-log-search-result.png)

This page consists of the following three areas:

- Parameter options (area 1 in the image above): These options are the same as the parameter options on the search homepage. You can re-select the parameters in the boxes and start a new search.

> - Progress (area 2 in the image above): The current search progress is shown on the right side of this page, including the search status and statistics of each node log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Progress (area 2 in the image above): The current search progress is shown on the right side of this page, including the log search status and statistics of each node.
```

- Search results (area 3 in the image above):
    - Time: The time at which the log is generated. The time zone is the same as the time zone of the front-end user.
    - Level: log level.
    - Component: Shows the component name and its address.
    - Log: The body part of each log record, excluding the log time and log level. Logs that are too long are automatically truncated. Click a row to expand the full content. The full log can show up to 512 characters.

> **Note:**
>
> At most 500 search results can be previewed on this page. You can get the complete search results by downloading them.

### Search progress

In the search progress area, a search on a node is called a search task. A search task might have the following statuses:

- Running: After starting the search, all tasks enter the **Running** status.
- Success: After the task is completed, it automatically enters the **Success** status. At this time, the logs have been cached in the local disk where the Dashboard backend is located, and can be provided to the frontend to download.

> - Failed: You have canceled this task, or the task has exited with an error for some reason and enters the **Failed** status. When the task fails, the local temporary files are automatically cleaned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Failed: When you cancel the search task, or the task exits with an error, the task enters the **Failed** status. When the task fails, the local temporary files are automatically cleaned.
```

The search progress area has the following three control buttons:

- **Download Selected**: Click this button to download logs of the selected components (only the completed ones can be selected), and you will get a tar file. Unzip this tar file to get one or more zip files (each component corresponds to a zip file). Unzip the zip file(s) to get the log text file.
- **Cancel**: Click this button to cancel all running tasks. You can click this button only when there are running tasks.
- **Retry**: Click this button to retry all failed tasks. You can click this button only when there are failed tasks and no running tasks.

## Search history list

Click the **View search history** link on the log search homepage to enter page of search history list:

![Search history entry](/media/dashboard/dashboard-log-search-history-entry.png)

![Search history list](/media/dashboard/dashboard-log-search-history.png)

> The history list shows the time range, log level, components, keywords, and search status of each search log. Click the **Detail** link in the **Action** column to jump to the result detail page for this search.：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The history list shows the time range, log level, components, keywords, and search status of each search log. Click the **Detail** link in the **Action** column to see the search result details:
```
